.TH DISCORD_GATEWAY_SEND_IDENTIFY 3 "2026-06-29" "libdiscord 0.2.0" "libdiscord Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
discord_gateway_send_identify \\\\- send Gateway identify payload with token, intents, and sharding
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <discord.h>

int discord_gateway_send_identify(discord_ctx_t *ctx);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B discord_gateway_send_identify
sends a Gateway identify payload (op 2) containing the bot token, intents bitfield, connection properties, and optional sharding information. The identify payload is sent as a WebSocket text frame via librest.

The payload includes:
.IP \(bu 2
.B token
— the configured bot token
.IP \(bu 2
.B intents
— from
.BR discord_config_t.intents
(0 = all non-privileged intents via DISCORD_INTENTS_DEFAULT)
.IP \(bu 2
.B properties
— os, browser, device set to "libdiscord"
.IP \(bu 2
.B shard
— [shard_id, num_shards] if num_shards > 0

This should be called after receiving the Gateway Hello (op 10) and sending the initial heartbeat. On success, the Gateway will respond with READY (dispatch op 0, t="READY").
.SH RETURN VALUES
0 on success, -1 on error (NULL ctx, missing librest context, no bot token configured, or output buffer overflow).
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
discord_config_t cfg = {
    .event_queue_size = 64,
    .bot_token = "MTIzNDU2...",
    .intents = DISCORD_INTENT_GUILDS | DISCORD_INTENT_GUILD_MESSAGES,
    .shard_id = 0,
    .num_shards = 2
};
discord_ctx_t *bot = discord_create_with_config(DISCORD_ROLE_CLIENT, &cfg);
discord_gateway_connect(bot);
/* ... send initial heartbeat ... */
discord_gateway_send_identify(bot);
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
discord_create_with_config(3), discord_gateway_connect(3), discord_gateway_send_heartbeat(3), discord_gateway_send_resume(3), discord_types(3)
.SH NOTES
The bot token must be configured via
.BR discord_create_with_config (3)
or
.BR discord_set_token (3)
before calling this function. Discord rate-limits identify calls (max 1000 per day across all shards). Use
.BR discord_gateway_send_resume (3)
to reconnect without re-identifying.
