.TH DISCORD_CREATE 3 "2026-06-29" "libdiscord 0.1.0" "libdiscord Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
discord_create, discord_create_with_config, discord_destroy \\\\- Discord context lifecycle (client/server roles, configurable event queue, bot token)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <discord.h>

discord_ctx_t *discord_create(discord_role_t role);
discord_ctx_t *discord_create_with_config(discord_role_t role, const discord_config_t *config);

void discord_destroy(discord_ctx_t *ctx);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B discord_create
allocates and initializes a Discord context for the given role (DISCORD_ROLE_CLIENT or DISCORD_ROLE_SERVER). Uses default config (event queue size 64, no token).

.B discord_create_with_config
allows caller-specified configuration via \\\\fBdiscord_config_t\\\\fP:
.RS
.IP \\(bu 2
event_queue_size: depth of the Discord event ring buffer (must be > 0; 0 fails)
.IP \\(bu 2
bot_token: Discord bot token string (copied internally; NULL if not needed)
.IP \\(bu 2
gateway_url: Gateway WebSocket URL override (NULL = default wss://gateway.discord.gg)
.IP \\(bu 2
api_base_url: API base URL override (NULL = default https://discord.com/api/v10)
.RE

Returns NULL if config is invalid or any allocation fails. Internally owns a rest_ctx_t from librest for HTTP/2 REST and WebSocket transport.

.B discord_destroy
frees the context, its event queue, API response buffer, and the underlying rest_ctx_t. Safe to call with NULL.
.SH RETURN VALUES
create* return a valid ctx pointer or NULL on failure. Caller must check before use.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
discord_config_t cfg = {
    .event_queue_size = 64,
    .bot_token = "MTIzNDU2Nzg5MDEyMzQ1Njc4OQ.abc123.xyz789"
};
discord_ctx_t *bot = discord_create_with_config(DISCORD_ROLE_CLIENT, &cfg);
if (!bot) { /* handle error */ }
...
discord_create_message(bot, "123456789", "Hello!");
...
discord_destroy(bot);
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
discord_next_event(3), discord_feed_input(3), discord_create_message(3), libdiscord(3)
.SH NOTES
Contexts are opaque. Use only through the documented API. The context owns its underlying librest rest_ctx_t; no separate lifecycle management needed.
