.TH DISCORD_GATEWAY_SEND_RESUME 3 "2026-06-29" "libdiscord 0.2.0" "libdiscord Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
discord_gateway_send_resume \\\\- send Gateway resume payload to reconnect with existing session
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <discord.h>

int discord_gateway_send_resume(discord_ctx_t *ctx);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B discord_gateway_send_resume
sends a Gateway resume payload (op 6) to re-establish a disconnected session without re-identifying. The payload includes the bot token, cached session ID (from the previous READY event), and the last known sequence number.

The context caches the session_id and resume_gateway_url from the most recent READY event. After a disconnect (DISCORD_EVENT_DISCONNECTED or DISCORD_EVENT_RECONNECT_REQUEST), the caller should:

.IP 1. 3
Reconnect via
.BR discord_gateway_connect (3)
.IP 2. 3
Wait for Hello (op 10) and send initial heartbeat
.IP 3. 3
Send resume via
.BR discord_gateway_send_resume (3)
.IP 4. 3
If resume succeeds, Gateway sends the missed events. If it fails (op 9, invalid session), re-identify.

The resume payload is: \fB{"op":6,"d":{"token":"...","session_id":"...","seq":N}}\fR.
.SH RETURN VALUES
0 on success, -1 on error (NULL ctx, missing librest context, no bot token, or no cached session_id).
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
/* After disconnection event: */
discord_event_t ev;
while (discord_next_event(bot, &ev) == 1) {
    if (ev.type == DISCORD_EVENT_DISCONNECTED) {
        discord_gateway_connect(bot);
        /* ... wait for Hello, send heartbeat ... */
        if (discord_gateway_send_resume(bot) != 0) {
            /* Resume failed — re-identify */
            discord_gateway_send_identify(bot);
        }
    }
    if (ev.type == DISCORD_EVENT_RECONNECT_REQUEST) {
        /* Server requested reconnect */
        discord_gateway_connect(bot);
        discord_gateway_send_resume(bot);
    }
}
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
discord_gateway_connect(3), discord_gateway_send_identify(3), discord_gateway_send_heartbeat(3), discord_reset(3)
.SH NOTES
Resume requires a cached session_id from a prior READY event. If no session has been established, this function returns -1. After calling
.BR discord_reset (3),
the session_id is cleared and resume is no longer possible (must re-identify).
