.TH DISCORD_GATEWAY_SEND_HEARTBEAT 3 "2026-06-29" "libdiscord 0.2.0" "libdiscord Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
discord_gateway_send_heartbeat \\\\- send Gateway heartbeat with last sequence number
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <discord.h>

int discord_gateway_send_heartbeat(discord_ctx_t *ctx, int last_sequence, uint64_t now_ms);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B discord_gateway_send_heartbeat
sends a Gateway heartbeat payload (op 1) to maintain the WebSocket connection. Discord requires heartbeats at the interval specified in the Hello payload (op 10), typically around 41.25 seconds.

.TP
.B last_sequence
The last sequence number received from the Gateway. Pass -1 if no sequence has been received yet (the heartbeat payload will use JSON null).

.TP
.B now_ms
The current monotonic timestamp in milliseconds, supplied by the caller. This is stored internally for heartbeat timing calculations by
.BR discord_gateway_process_heartbeat (3).

The heartbeat payload is sent as a WebSocket text frame: \fB{"op":1,"d":<seq_or_null>}\fR.
.SH RETURN VALUES
0 on success, -1 on error (NULL ctx or missing librest context). Note: returns -1 if no WebSocket channel is established.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
/* In the application's event loop: */
if (discord_gateway_process_heartbeat(bot, current_time_ms)) {
    discord_gateway_send_heartbeat(bot, last_seq, current_time_ms);
    uint8_t buf[512];
    int n = discord_get_output(bot, buf, sizeof(buf));
    send_to_gateway(buf, n);
}
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
discord_gateway_process_heartbeat(3), discord_gateway_connect(3), discord_gateway_send_identify(3)
.SH NOTES
The caller owns all timing logic. The library tracks the last heartbeat timestamp internally (updated by the
.B now_ms
parameter) for use by
.BR discord_gateway_process_heartbeat (3).
