.TH DISCORD_GATEWAY_PROCESS_HEARTBEAT 3 "2026-06-29" "libdiscord 0.2.0" "libdiscord Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
discord_gateway_process_heartbeat \\\\- check if a Gateway heartbeat should be sent now
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <discord.h>

int discord_gateway_process_heartbeat(discord_ctx_t *ctx, uint64_t now_ms);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B discord_gateway_process_heartbeat
is a timing helper that the caller invokes periodically with the current monotonic timestamp. It returns 1 if a heartbeat should be sent now, 0 otherwise.

The logic:
.IP \(bu 2
If no heartbeat has ever been sent (last_heartbeat_ms == 0), returns 1 immediately — the first heartbeat should be sent right after receiving the Gateway Hello (op 10).
.IP \(bu 2
If (now_ms - last_heartbeat_ms) >= heartbeat_interval_ms, returns 1 — the interval has elapsed.
.IP \(bu 2
Otherwise returns 0 — not yet time.

The heartbeat interval is captured from the Gateway Hello payload (typically ~41.25 seconds). This function performs no I/O and generates no output — it only checks timing.
.SH RETURN VALUES
1 if a heartbeat should be sent now, 0 otherwise. Returns 0 if ctx is NULL.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
/* In the application's main loop: */
uint64_t now = get_monotonic_ms();

if (discord_gateway_process_heartbeat(bot, now)) {
    discord_gateway_send_heartbeat(bot, last_seq, now);
    /* ... extract and send output frames ... */
}
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
discord_gateway_send_heartbeat(3), discord_gateway_connect(3), discord_gateway_send_identify(3)
.SH NOTES
The caller must supply a monotonic millisecond timestamp. Wall-clock time is not suitable due to NTP adjustments and daylight saving transitions. The library does not perform any timing internally — the caller drives the heartbeat loop.
