.TH DISCORD_GATEWAY_STATE 3 "2026-06-29" "libdiscord 0.2.0" "libdiscord Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
discord_gateway_state \\\\- query current Gateway connection state
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <discord.h>

discord_gateway_state_t discord_gateway_state(discord_ctx_t *ctx);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B discord_gateway_state
returns the current Gateway connection state as a
.B discord_gateway_state_t
enum value. This is a read-only accessor with no side effects.

Possible states:
.TP
.B DISCORD_GW_DISCONNECTED
Initial state, or after disconnect/reconnect-request/reset.
.TP
.B DISCORD_GW_CONNECTING
.BR discord_gateway_connect (3)
called, waiting for binary channel.
.TP
.B DISCORD_GW_CONNECTED
Binary channel established (or Hello received).
.TP
.B DISCORD_GW_IDENTIFIED
Gateway READY received (session established).
.TP
.B DISCORD_GW_RESUMING
.BR discord_gateway_send_resume (3)
called, waiting for resumed event stream.
.SH RETURN VALUES
Current
.B discord_gateway_state_t
value. Returns DISCORD_GW_DISCONNECTED if ctx is NULL.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
discord_gateway_state_t state = discord_gateway_state(bot);
switch (state) {
case DISCORD_GW_DISCONNECTED:
    printf("Not connected\\n");
    break;
case DISCORD_GW_CONNECTING:
    printf("Connecting...\\n");
    break;
case DISCORD_GW_CONNECTED:
    printf("Connected, sending identify\\n");
    break;
case DISCORD_GW_IDENTIFIED:
    printf("Ready and identified\\n");
    break;
case DISCORD_GW_RESUMING:
    printf("Resuming session...\\n");
    break;
}
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
discord_gateway_connect(3), discord_gateway_send_identify(3), discord_gateway_send_resume(3), discord_reset(3)
.SH NOTES
The state is updated internally based on REST and Gateway events processed during
.BR discord_feed_input (3).
State transitions are:
DISCONNECTED → CONNECTING → CONNECTED → IDENTIFIED (or RESUMING → CONNECTED → IDENTIFIED).
